you check under the sofa
nope you open the cupboard not there
you lie down on the floor and sneak a
peek under your bed
nah no kitties there just dust bunnies
then where is your cat oh no could that
crazy pet slip out through the back door
a wave of panic overwhelmed you and you
bolt outside
your backyard once green and blooming is
now covered with a thick layer of
rock hard asphalt several large fake
plants in pots
make the dull landscape somewhat more
upbeat
anyway where's that pussycat of yours oh
no
just as you feared your kitty spotted
something on the ground
and is now playing with it you get
closer
incredible a tiny green sprout has
broken through the asphalt
but it means your cat is in grave danger
because
these days plants are more treacherous
than bears crocodiles or even
sharks until a couple of years ago most
people knew
next to nothing about carnivorous plants
if you had asked an expert though
they would have excitedly submerged you
in a sea of information
meat-eating plants used to munch on tiny
creatures
mostly insects frogs more rarely a mouse
or rat
that is until recently but i'm getting
ahead of myself
back when days were good there were just
about 700 kinds of carnivorous plants on
the planet
they grew all over the world except
antarctica
nobody liked antarctica except penguins
even before the disaster people kept
discovering new species of meat-eating
plants
some of them were in the process of
becoming carnivorous
those had their leaves coated with wax a
bug landed on it and slipped right into
the plant's
water filled pitcher some carnivorous
plants
wooed insects not only to snack on them
some flying critters were needed to
spread the plants pollen
it's one of the reasons meat-eating
plants had and still have
bright colorful flowers these blooms
were high above the treacherous leaves
as far away from the traps as possible
this way
pollinators didn't get eaten before they
helped the plant to reproduce
good old plants got most of their food
by basking in the sun
but it wasn't enough they also needed
nutrients
which they slurped up with their roots
but carnivorous plants
lived in areas with nutrient poor soil
that's why they started to catch prey
such a high protein diet help them
survive and grow
faster some meat-eating plants didn't
even have special digestive enzymes
they used to partner up with good
bacteria and while those bacteria took
care of prey
the plant itself concentrated on making
its physical trap stronger
little did we know at that time that
soon life would change beyond
recognition
that we would need all the available
information about the planet's flora
because when a scientific experiment
went way out of control
all plants on earth and i do mean all
became
carnivorous the event even got the name
of the great carnivorous disaster
slowly but surely grass trees and bushes
started to transform not all of them
grew bigger
but some did plus each plant species
picked its
own way to catch its prey you cautiously
come closer to the spot where your cat
keeps playing with an innocent looking
tree sprout
even though you know the plant is still
weak and isn't likely to harm your pet
the sight makes you shudder you have to
figure out which kind of plant it is
green meat eaters use a bunch of
different methods to catch their prey
those are pitch shaped and snap traps
sticky goo
fly paper traps and many others still
all of them involve
modified leaves the plant you're
currently looking at uses sticky
tentacles to get its food
if these tentacles were motionless
sunlight would glint off them
attracting insects but this plant is a
proud owner of moving tentacles
and right now you watch them wrap around
your kitty's tail
you put on a glove you now always keep
in your back pocket
desperate times call for desperate
measures then you
gently and carefully pry the
surprisingly strong tentacle open
the plant doesn't seem to be poisonous
but still
you can't but feel relieved it's not a
snap trap one
those take after the iconic meat-eater
venus fly trap
their leaves are divided in half on the
ends
they have spikes that create a seal once
an insect or
these days an animal makes its way in
between the serrated leaves
they snap shut the whole process takes
less than a second
this is the most treacherous kind of
carnivorous plants
snap trap plants have leaves covered
with short stiff hairs
they're called sensitive or trigger
hairs if something
or someone touches them the trap springs
into action
the plant produces digestive juices
similar to those in your stomach
in 5 to 12 days there's almost nothing
left from the prey
the trap reopens and the scarce remains
get washed away by
rain these days people can't feel safe
even underwater
now all seaweed every single blade of
grass
can't wait to munch on your finger
life is dramatically changed in many
ways
the construction of new roads and
highways that were supposed to go
through
forests need much more preparation
safety measures
and more advanced tools on the plus side
the planet has more oxygen than ever
before people have started to adjust
their lifestyles to the new reality
we no more jog in the park cycle swim in
open water
and enjoy other outdoor activities gyms
swimming pools and takeout restaurants
have become super popular
the great carnivorous disaster has
changed people's diets
growing good old veggies isn't an easy
feat these days
potatoes carrots broccoli you name it
have become a rare delicacy
people don't walk anymore you never know
which tree or bush on your way
might attack you because you look
delicious enough to lunch on
that's why there's an ever increasing
demand for cars
all flower shops have gone out of
business the lovely floral arrangements
had a nasty habit of eating the
customers
weddings certainly changed the simple
custom of throwing the bride's bouquet
to the bridesmaids
changed to imply an attempt on someone's
life
unfortunately many animals have gone
extinct
mostly the slower ones those animals
that have survived the disaster
are either evolving to live alongside
carnivorous plants
or skedaddling the safer areas lots of
animals that used to live in the wild
are now moving closer to towns and
cities
by the way the safest and most popular
places to settle down nowadays
are deserts despite a lack of water in
supermarkets
more and more people build houses and
relocate there
and people who opt for living in a
desert don't mind walking around a
cactus or two on their way to the car
even though some of these cacti have
learned to detect prey
and shoot at it with their needles it's
still unclear how they get to the
falling prey afterward
they can't crawl can they there are
still original meat-eating plants here
but they've evolved to be much stronger
and larger
in any case people are still learning to
live in this
new world of meat-eating plants boy
what i wouldn't give for a really good
herbicide right now
[Music]